docs: expand and clarify add algolia search (#15204)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/adding-search-with-algolia.md

1. Beyond this guide, you may also want to checkout Algolia's extensive [docs on how to get started in React](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/getting-started/react).
2. If you're looking to add search to a documentation site, you can let Algolia handle most of the steps outlined below by using their [Docsearch](https://community.algolia.com/docsearch) functionality. For other types of sites and more fine-grained control over exactly what data should be indexed, read on.

## Why Use Algolia?

> Algolia is a site search hosting platform that hosts page index information for you, and then returns the results to wherever you have the site search located on your site. You tell Algolia what pages you have, where they are, and how to navigate to them, and Algolia returns those results to the user based on whatever search terms they use. With a Gatsby site, all you have to do is install the plugin, tell it what information to query, provide your credentials, and a few other configuration steps and you can implement site search on your site. This means that after the queries have run when you `gatsby build`, Algolia will have the entire index of your site available to it and can serve results to users very quickly. To learn more about the benefits of using Algolia, [check out this blog post from Netlify, who recently switched their site search to Algolia](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2017/10/10/replacing-our-search-with-algolia/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Algolia is a site search hosting platform that hosts page index information for you, and then returns the results to wherever you have the site search located on your site. You tell Algolia what pages you have, where they are, and how to navigate to them, and Algolia returns those results to the user based on whatever search terms they use. 

To implement Algolia search on your Gatsby site, you'll need to install the plugin, tell it what information to query, provide your credentials, and a few other configuration steps. This means that after the queries have run when you `gatsby build`, Algolia will have the entire index of your site available and can serve results to users very quickly. To learn more about the benefits of using Algolia, [check out this blog post from Netlify, who recently switched their site search to Algolia](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2017/10/10/replacing-our-search-with-algolia/).
```

Rephrasing to not minimize the amount of work, since this was in response to "that's overkill!"

1. Beyond this guide, you may also want to checkout Algolia's extensive [docs on how to get started in React](https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/building-search-ui/getting-started/react).
2. If you're looking to add search to a documentation site, you can let Algolia handle most of the steps outlined below by using their [Docsearch](https://community.algolia.com/docsearch) functionality. For other types of sites and more fine-grained control over exactly what data should be indexed, read on.

## Why Use Algolia?

Algolia is a site search hosting platform that hosts page index information for you, and then returns the results to wherever you have the site search located on your site. You tell Algolia what pages you have, where they are, and how to navigate to them, and Algolia returns those results to the user based on whatever search terms they use.

> To implement Algolia search on your Gatsby site, you'll need to install the plugin, tell it what information to query, provide your credentials, and a few other configuration steps. This means that after the queries have run when you `gatsby build`, Algolia will have the entire index of your site available and can serve results to users very quickly. To learn more about the benefits of using Algolia, [check out this blog post from Netlify, who recently switched their site search to Algolia](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2017/10/10/replacing-our-search-with-algolia/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To implement Algolia search on your Gatsby site, you'll need to install the plugin, tell it what information to query, provide your Algolia credentials, and a few other configuration steps. This means that after the queries have run when you `gatsby build`, Algolia will have the entire index of your site available and can serve results to users very quickly. To learn more about the benefits of using Algolia, [check out this blog post from Netlify, who recently switched their site search to Algolia](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2017/10/10/replacing-our-search-with-algolia/).
```

Notice that you're loading `queries` from a file at `./src/utils/algolia.js` (you can of course put it wherever you like) and your Algolia ID and API key from `.env` so let's add those files.

For this, you will need to navigate to [the 'API Keys' section of your Algolia profile](https://www.algolia.com/api-keys). If you already have an account, you will find your API keys here. If not, you will need to sign up for one and then navigate to this link. It should look something like this screenshot:

> ![algolia api key screenshot](./images/algolia-api-keys.png)

Reviewer: The screenshot is really tall, and cuts off the screen–I'm wondering if a wider screenshot that shows more of the page, perhaps with an arrow pointing to where the API keys could be found would help people (and fit better in the doc layout). I'd recommend `rebeccapurple` (`#663399`) for an arrow color if you end up going that route.

Author: Good call, I'll trim it down a bit and try to be more illustrative. On second look, it's definitely difficult to see what's going on at that page.

Once you have your App ID, Search-Only API Key, and Admin API Key, place the following code into your `.env` file, replacing the placeholder keys with your keys:

```text:title=.env
GATSBY_ALGOLIA_APP_ID=KA4OJA9KAS
GATSBY_ALGOLIA_SEARCH_KEY=lkjas987ef923ohli9asj213k12n59ad
ALGOLIA_ADMIN_KEY=lksa09sadkj1230asd09dfvj12309ajl
```

The placeholder keys in the previous code snippet are random character sequences but the ones you copy from your Algolia profile should be the same length. One of the benefits of using this method of querying your API keys is that they all get stored in one file, on the server, and are therefore never exposed to the client-side, which increases security.

> Also, it's good practice to commit a `.env.example` to version control so that if someone forks your repo, they know which environment variables they need to supply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, it's good practice to commit a `.env.example` to version control so that if someone forks your repo, they know which environment variables they need to supply.
```
Should we add anything about not committing `.env` files for security purposes?

Author: Good question, I honestly have very little experience with .env files and this portion was already here, so I'm not quite sure.
